So, by the end of this video, you would
have created this cool AR experience
where you can scan an image to spawn any
character of your choice and control it
using a joystick. And the best part, you
can do this in about 15 minutes. All
right, then. Let's get started. So, to
begin with, you need to have Unity
software downloaded. If you don't have
it already, you can visit their website
and download Unity Hub for free. Once
you have the software installed, you can
use this platform to manage different
projects and different versions of Unity
editor. Now, as you can see here, I have
already installed the latest version of
editor that's available for me. If
you're doing it for the first time, you
can navigate inside install editor, and
here download the latest version that's
available to you, and make sure it has
the tag LTS which stands for long-term
support. Now, before installing, it will
ask you to choose the modules. Make sure
to select Android build support with
OpenJDK, Android SDK and NDK tools, and
along with that, make sure to select
Windows build support I to CPP, and
install the editor. All right, once you
have your editor installed, you can
navigate inside projects, create a new
project, make sure to select the right
editor version, select Universal 3D Core
Render Pipeline, give your project a
name, and create the project. All right,
so once we have the project open, we can
now import all the packages and
resources that we'll be using to create
this AR application. So, for that,
navigate inside Windows package
management package manager. Here, select
Unity registry, look for the AR
Foundation package, and install it.
Next, search for the Google AR Core XR
plugin package, and install this as
well. Now, if you're building for iOS,
then there are a different set of
packages that you will need, and we have
a dedicated video on that. You can find
the link for that video at the top.
Soon, we'll be downloading and importing
3D assets from Sketchfab, which is of
.GLTF format. And for us to be able to
import this into Unity, we need one more
package. So, inside your package
manager, click on the plus symbol,
select add package by name, and here you
need to type com.unity.cloud.gltfast,
and click on install. All right, so with
that, we have all the required
write
Now, we can download the assets. And the
first asset that we need is going to be
an image. Now since we're going to use
this image for image detection, we
cannot download any image of our choice.
There are some key points that you'll
have to remember while selecting your
image. So here are some of the points
for you to refer to while selecting your
image. But the key thing to remember
here is you do not want to have a
repeating pattern or too many feature
points like barcodes. So for this video,
I have chosen this particular image here
from Pixel Stock. I will leave a link
for this in the description. And next,
we need a 3D model that we can spawn
when the image is detected. And for
that, I'm using this really cool
animated Charizard model from Jimmy.
Once again, you can find the link for
this in the description below. And the
final asset that we need is going to be
the joystick back that we'll be using to
move the 3D model around. And you can
download this from Unity's asset store.
So once you have your assets downloaded,
you can now import them inside Unity. I
would highly recommend to maintain
folder hygiene. So create a new folder
called as assets. And inside this
folder, you can import all your assets.
And now to import the joystick back, we
can click on open in Unity
and import this package inside our
project.
All right. So with that, we have all the
resources that we need. Now let's see
how to set up our project for AR
development. First, navigate inside
file, build profiles,
select Android, and switch the platform.
Once that's done, navigate inside player
settings and change the company name.
Make sure you're on the Android tab,
scroll down and select Vulkan as the
graphics API and remove it from the
list. Then, uncheck multi-thread
rendering and scroll further down below
till you find override default package
name. Make sure to uncheck it and check
it back again to make sure that the
package name matches with your company
name and product name. Then, make sure
the minimum API level is set to 7.1,
scripting backend is set to IL2CPP, and
the target architecture has ARM64
enabled. So now with these settings,
you'll be able to run it on your Android
device. Next, you have to navigate
inside XR Plugin Management and inside
the Android tab, make sure to check
Google AR Core as the plugin provider.
And with that, we have finished setting
up our project. Now, we can finally
start setting up our scene. Now, setting
this up is fairly simple. You can select
the main camera and delete it. Then,
right click on your hierarchy, navigate
inside XR, and select XR Origin Mobile
AR. Now, this will add the XR Origin
game object with the XR Origin
component. Now, the purpose of XR Origin
is to transform the objects and
trackable features to their final
position, rotation, and scale inside the
Unity scene. And as a child of the XR
Origin, you'll find the camera offset
and the main camera. Now, along with
this, we need one more component that
manages the entire life cycle of the AR
experience, and that is the AR Session.
So, to add it, you can navigate inside
XR and add AR Session. Now, to add image
tracking, you need to select XR Origin,
click on add components, and add AR
Tracked Image Manager. Now, this image
manager has a dependency on XR Origin,
so make sure to add it on the same game
object as of XR Origin. Now, this
component needs a serialized library,
basically a reference to a single image
or multiple images. And to create the
reference image library, we can go
inside our Assets folder, right click,
create,
XR, and select reference image library.
You can rename this. I'll call it as
Charizard. Click on add image, and here
we can drag and drop the image that we
imported. Now, if you want, you can also
specify the size, but for now, I'm going
to let it be at its default value. Next,
select the XR Origin again, scroll down,
and now we can refer the serialized
library that we just created. At this
point, the tracked image manager will
look for the detected image, and once
the image is found, it will instantiate
the tracked image prefab that is given
here. But, we're not going to do it this
way. Instead, we're going to write our
own script to see when the image is
detected, and when it is, we're going to
spawn our 3D model and also control it
along with the joystick. So, for that,
let's go back to our Assets folder and
create a new folder called as Scripts.
Now, in this folder, we'll create a new
script, and we'll call it as AR Tracked
Image Spawner. So, let's open the script
and I will see you in Visual Studio. So,
first here we want to declare the
packages that we'll be using, which is
Unity Engine XR. AR Foundation. Then we
can get rid of this default code over
here. Now, in here we can start by
declaring all the variables that we'll
be using. So, the first one we need is a
Charizard prefab game object, which
we'll be using to reference the prefab
that we'll be creating inside Unity
editor. Then we need one more variable
to store the instantiated prefab. We
call it as Charizard. And finally, we
need one more variable that we can use
to reference and store the AR Tracked
Image Manager. All right, so now what we
want to do is we want to get the AR
Tracked Image Manager component and
listen to the events of when the images
are detected. So, this we can script
inside the on enable function. First, we
get the AR Tracked Image Manager
component. Now, here you'll see that it
is game object.getcomponent. What this
means is that the AR Tracked Image
Spawner script that we have, we have to
attach it to the same game object as
that of AR Tracked Image Manager. Now,
if you attach it to some other game
object, then it will not work.
Alternatively, we can set this as
serialized field and you can refer to it
as well. Next, we want to listen to the
events when the trackables have changed
and call the on image changed function.
Here, we can write the function for on
image changed, which takes the parameter
AR Trackable Changed Event Args and has
a variable called event args. Now, this
event arg variable has all the data with
respect to the image that has been
detected, whether it is added, removed,
the name of it, the size of it, etc. So,
what we want to do inside this function
is to go through each of the new image
that has been added and we want to
instantiate the Charizard prefab. And we
want to instantiate it at the same
position where the image is detected.
And that's about it. Now, you can save
the script and go back to Unity. So,
back here in Unity, we can select the XR
Origin game object and add the script
that we just wrote. Now, this needs a
Charizard prefab, so let's set that up.
By the way, 87% of people watching our
videos are not subscribed. If you found
this video to be helpful until now, then
please hit the subscribe button. It
takes 1 second, costs you nothing, and
it helps our channel grow. Thank you.
Now, back to the video. So, to set up
this prefab, you can select the model
and add it to your scene, and reset its
position to zero. Next, right click on
it, navigate inside prefab, and unpack
it completely. Then, we can rename this
as Charizard prefab. Now, this is not a
prefab yet. We'll soon convert it into
one, but before that, as you can see
here, it already has an animator
component, but it does not have a
controller, and we'll have to create
one. So, for that, once again, inside
your project folder, navigate inside the
asset folder where you have created all
your assets. You can right click,
navigate inside create, animation, and
create an animation controller. Then,
rename it as Charizard controller, and
open it up. Inside the project window,
create one more folder called as
animations. Open the child objects of
this model, select all the animations
that are there, copy it, and navigate
inside the animation folders, and paste
it in here. Now, the reason for doing
this is so that we have the flexibility
to edit the animations if you want to.
So, now, inside the animator window, we
can create a new state and call it as
jump. And for the animation, search for
20,150 jump 01 start, and drag and drop
it in here. Then, create one more empty
state, and call it as hover. And for the
motion, look for 20,000 default weight
01, and reference it here. Next, add a
transition from jump to hover, and then
finally, let's create one more empty
state, and call it as fly. And look for
the animation titled 20,100
run 01 loop, and reference it here. Once
again, we can add a transition from
hover to fly, but we want this to
transition only when we are pressing the
joystick and it's moving forward. For
that, you'll have to select the
parameters and add a bool type of
parameter, and let's call this parameter
as fly para. Then, select the
transition, remove the has exit time,
scroll down, and set the condition as
param fly to true. Now, we want the
animation to be set back to the hover
state when we are no longer pressing the
joystick. So, we'll make one more
transition which goes from fly to hover.
Select the transition and remove the has
exit time and this time we want to set
the condition as fly param, but set it
to false. Now, to visualize this, we can
select Charizard prefab and here we need
to reference the controller that we just
created. Then select the window, drag
and drop it in here and press play. Now,
here you'll see that it enters into the
jump state, it will jump from the ground
and keeps hovering and then we have set
this to true, it's going to fly away.
Now, there's one thing that you might
notice here is that when the animation
is playing the character is moving
forward which is not ideal. So, we'll
have to edit the animation a little bit
and to do that you need to select the
20,100 run 01 loop. Select the origin
position, right click on it and remove
the property. And now, when you press
play and test it again, you'll see that
it's hovering and when we set this to
true, it's going to just play the fly
animation. Now, we can use the joystick
to move it around. Now, the next step is
to set the right scale for our prefab
and how I generally do it is by creating
a 3D cube which is of size one which
basically indicates it's 1 m tall, high
and wide. Set its position to zero and
now we can scale it to 0.1 which is 10
cm and then we can select the prefab,
make sure that it scales uniformly and
then scale it all the way down until it
kind of matches the similar height of
the cube. So, once you're satisfied with
it, you can select the cube and delete
it. All right, now the next step is to
add the joystick prefab that we
downloaded and write a script to control
our Charizard. So, for that, first we
need to create a UI canvas. Scroll down
and set the UI scale mode to scale with
screen size. Here, we want to set the
reference resolution to 2160 cross 1080
which will cover most of the smartphone
screen sizes today. And then, navigate
inside assets,
joystick pack,
prefabs, select fixed joystick and drag
and drop it inside the canvas. Now, to
adjust the position and scale of this,
what we could do is change the aspect
ratio from free
to 16 by 9 landscape. And then, you You
select the joystick and move it slightly
up here like this and let's scale it up
by two times. Perfect. Now we can go
back inside asset scripts and create a
new script called as Charizard
controller. Now open this up and I will
see you in Visual Studio. All right, so
first let's get rid of this code over
here and declare all the variables that
we'll be using. The first variable is
going to be speed which is going to
store how fast the character is going to
move. Then we need variables to
reference the fixed joystick, the rigid
body and the animator component. And
finally we need one more variable to see
if Charizard is flying or not. So on
enable we want to get all the three
components. Now since the rigid body and
the animation controller will be
attached to the same component as
Charizard controller, we are using
object.getcomponent whereas the fixed
joystick is something that we need to
fetch once the prefab is instantiated
which is why we'll be using find first
object by type fixed joystick. Then
inside the fixed update we want to
reference the values of the joystick's
horizontal and vertical axis and based
on its motion we want to calculate the
movement vector and add a linear
velocity to it. Now along with the
linear velocity we want to rotate the
character based on the position of the
joystick and we are able to achieve this
with the help of this line of code. And
the final thing that we are trying to
achieve with this script is to change
the animation state from however to fly
when the joystick is moved around. So
for that we'll be using the animation
controller and setting the bool fly
parameter to true when the X value and
the Y value is not equal to zero and
when we leave the joystick or we are not
using the joystick anymore
that's when the X value and the Y value
will be equal to zero and then we set
the fly parameter to false. All right,
so now we can save the script and go
back to Unity. Here we can select
Charizard prefab and add the controller.
We can set the speed to 0.2 and then
add the rigid body component and make
sure to uncheck use gravity. And with
that we have the Charizard prefab setup
so we can go back to assets. Here we can
select the game object and drag and drop
it in here. Select the prefab from your
scene, delete it, then select the XR
origin, scroll down, and here we can
reference the Charizard prefab. All
right, we're almost done. Before we can
build it and test it on our device,
there's one more setting that we'll have
to configure, and that is to navigate
inside assets,
settings, and here you need to select PC
renderer, scroll all the way down, click
on add render features, and add AR
background render feature. Now do the
same for mobile render as well.
And that's about it. Now you can connect
your Android device to your laptop or
machine. You need to make sure to enable
the USB debugging mode. Now if you're
not sure how to do that, I will leave a
link for that in the description below.
So once you have it connected, you can
navigate inside file, build profiles,
click on open scene list, and add the
open scenes. Then go back inside
Android, click on build and run.
Here, we want to create a new folder
called as builds, and in here give your
file a name, and click on save. Now it's
going to take some time for this project
to build, so I'll see you once that's
done. All right, so the app has been
successfully built onto my device, and
now when I scan the image,
you can see that the Charizard appears,
and now I can use the joystick and move
it around.
Congratulations, you built your first AR
application right from scratch. So what
are the next steps? You can play around,
you can have different buttons for
different animations like how I've done
here. Now if you use this video to build
something cool, make sure to tag us. And
that's it for this video. Thank you so
much for watching. Make sure to like and
subscribe, and I will see you in the
next one.